that is that is the best thing you can
do as a rich person to have a friend who
has a jet versus having your own jet uh
and I have so many friends who have Jets
and then they complain be like man you
know my microwave went out on my chat it
cost me 30 or 40 000 to replace this
stupid thing or like oh I'm stuck in uh
uh O'Hare and it's really uh snowing and
they gotta they charge me like 20 grand
to defrost my plane or like something
like that like those kind of things are
just really irk me and I just can't do
it
you're making these smaller Investments
you had a friend you got it you said hey
just create a fund I'll make a bigger
investment
now you're kind of in the middle of this
Evolution and yes you you get a little
older into your 30s you're more mature
you know you're married starting a
family all this stuff and and now you
know you you mentioned your income
numbers now you're just you're
generating a lot of income and and it's
like investing the income and recycling
it as Investments come to fruition and
liquidate at what point did you say you
know what I really need a family office
I need something more structured to just
manage our family wealth our our Legacy
wealth our generational wealth yeah so
it was never a moment where I thought
like hey I need to actually create a
family office and I don't really
consider it a family office even though
you can say it's fractional uh it was
more so hey I need help and I need
people to help me with some of these
tasks like the taxes and there was some
legal stuff and I have tons of trust
that grantor trust and Dynasty trust and
like is this all starting to add up and
then it just becomes a real headache
from the management perspective yeah and
then my wife manages uh our
philanthropic arm and there's not really
an arm she just I call it a tear Factor
me and my friends be Joker and we call
it a tear Factor the more my wife cries
the more she donates based on the
foundation pitching her and I'm very
logical you know like there's food banks
and all this kind of stuff that my wife
focus on a lot of like uh things for uh
children like education uh poverty and
all that kind of stuff and uh I'm more
like well we're funding this program to
help fight uh poverty for children what
were the stats and the data on how many
less children went hungry because of our
donations and all the donations they got
and my wife Marlo said I was like well
you can't think like that you know like
they're making a good well you know Neil
I my experience you need okay in a
family office this is actually a
discussion I had with uh Danny royceman
who manages a family office for a lot of
ultra net worth investors you kind of
need
both in a family office the right brain
and the left brain and and managing
managing the money and then to your
point the philanthropic arm you need the
the more creative and humans
human-centered heart-centered stuff
because that's that's the heartbeat of a
family families don't run on dollars and
cents or even logic like let's be honest
you know families don't run on logic
right but but at the same time you're an
entrepreneur your numbers focused you're
very logical I mean obviously you're
super intelligent guy but my point is
like it's not good or bad or better or
worse you kind of need a a system or way
to organize it all and and kind of get
it all running and humming into that you
need external help right and you said
you don't consider it a family office it
might be might be a multi-family office
or shared family office or whatever I
might call it a family office just
because it's a better podcast title but
so you you know you kind of mentioned
you and your wife you kind of have
different roles which is good right
complementarity what kind of external
help or what kind of structure do you
use to kind of help guide you and to cut
down on the headaches can I call them
headaches involved with all this
I call them so I we have a team let's
just say there's one person that I talk
to who deals with everything right and
he deals with a headache and then from
there he hires people and deals with
everything from lawyers to accountants
to uh people who deal with trust uh
people who are analyzing some
Investments like stocks and keep you
know our uh Angel Investments uh things
like that although I don't really deal
well with people who are giving me angel
deals or private Equity deals I like uh
more so doing them myself and being
involved in that I don't like dealing
with a lot of the mundane stuff or
dealing with stocks although I will do
some of my own trades like I called up
one of my guys and I'm like what do you
think about First Republic and this is
when all the banks were crashing and I
remember the weekend uh
right then and there it was the
government said we're gonna backstop
some of these stocks like uh or uh the
banks they were going to backs up svb
and I forgot I think there was one other
that were going under like look don't
worry you guys won't have to worry about
your money at that point I was like all
right the government's going to bail out
these Banks and then JP Morgan did a
deal with First Republic right then and
there on the weekend and now so I'm like
well they don't need the money if the
government is going to create this
program that's going to give people the
money in case they're short for some
time and they don't have to liquidate
let's say their treasury or whatever
maybe
so then in the morning right when I wake
up I could already see uh the stocks and
a lot of the bank stocks are just
tanking First Republic was getting hit
one of the hardest so I remember right
when the market opened I was like huh a
few minutes we're going to buy kept
going lower and lower
and I remember I hit around 18 or 19 or
something like that
and calling one of my guys I was like
what do you think about buying some
furniture Pueblo
and I'm not too risky I won't do tons of
options and stuff like that and I was
just like you know I think people are
overreacting I'm not saying the company
is actually worth 19 or 30 or whatever
it was 100 company before I'm not even
thinking it's worth five but I'm like
it's just all going down based on
emotion and I was like once people
realize like the consumer that they
don't need to go to all these Banks and
start pulling out their money
I believe that the market would rally
just because a lot of it is sentiment
right no one knows the financials of
First Republic at the time they're just
reacting and like a bank run it's at the
beginning yeah exactly so then I tried
buying three million dollars worth of
shares at 19. I think I got a little bit
under 900 Grand got filled and then the
price when I started kept going up and I
was too cheap to pay you a problem deal
you were probably moving the market you
know I mean I I don't know if that
amount of money I think I was moving the
market only three million dollars worth
of shares a lot so I was just like I was
clicking buttons
and I was just buying myself and then at
1905 I was like I can then I was like I
think this thing's gonna go up so then I
increased you know it started going to
like
19.85 or eight three and I was trying to
buy it at 19.8 uh you know I was penny
pinching and I shouldn't and I didn't
get any more of a fill and then I didn't
sell it that day the next day I sold it
I think I made it like around 1.4 I
would have been happy if I got three
million dollars worth and I could have
bought more but I also didn't want to
buy too much of it because if I lost two
three million dollars worth it's not the
end of the day and I also wanted to take
the loss
um and I believed I was gonna make
something how much I didn't know but
like 1.4 and 24 hours right sold it the
next day uh uh and I think it was going
to like 50 cash out and then it started
going down like uh let me just sell this
thing I'm up enough and uh I didn't buy
anymore after even when I kept going
down lower and then it went back up
because at that time you know people are
starting to trade they're getting more
data and all these financials maybe
they're not releasing financials but
people are doing their own back-end
napkin math I'm like hey what's
happening how much of their money is in
treasuries or whatever and people are
trying to do their own calculations I
created purely on emotions not my
emotions but I knew the market was
illogical on their trading on the first
day and I knew that it was gonna you're
gonna see crazy roller coasters I was
like ah There's an opportunity to day
trade here and I took it and I didn't
get too greedy I could have made more
money
um but it was a good enough uh so so I
hear you you're you're opportunistic I
mean you're an entrepreneur entrepreneur
you're an investor you love technology
but you also you love ideas you love you
know the game like we could we call it
the game and and you now I would I would
call it a family office you know you
have a manager who's delegating tasked
other experts so you're interfacing with
him so he's taking a lot of this well we
split some of the costs right with other
uh Rich individuals right that's why I
call a multi-family office yeah so it's
yeah it's a shared family office or
multi-family office so who may I you
know you don't obviously I'm not asking
for their names but are these other
individuals that you know through
business that you decided to do this
together or how did that process start
yeah so the guy who I have helping me
run a lot of stuff uh he was a finance
guy and he did really well managing
other people's money
um and started working with him
okay and so yes he was pretty much doing
in the past right so he did it both for
himself uh in which raising funds and
deploying it and then eventually he went
into the family office route in which he
was just like hey I'm gonna just work
with a lot of the rich families I met
and then you know said all right let's
work together and that's how I got set
up because he's like hey everybody
alleviate some of your pain at first it
wasn't called a family office he's like
how about I alleviate some of your pain
it was a business model for him he's
like hey I'm going to create this and
make some money by charging some rich
families he's like how about I oblivate
some of your pain and then it just kept
growing and then he pretty much was just
like yeah I have a service uh you know
if you want a fractional family office
that's what he offers
so how is your experience you know it is
is working with this multi-family office
and you know it sounds like you know
your your assets and you are are a big
part of it
um
has it
read up a lot of time for you I mean has
it you know it has it doesn't make a ton
of money I'll be quite honest I have
better luck picking on my own than going
with money managers you know there's a
saying always yeah that one of my
buddies told me a long long time ago if
you work with money managers and wealth
advisors they won't make you rich they
help you stay Rich right so none of
these guys get the returns that I want
that's why I still do some of my own
trades and that's why I'm pretty
aggressive well I've been Neil family
offices I mean this is this is known
they're they're focused on Capital
preservation you are totally you're
totally correct because you know a
family office manager
you know the downside is way worse for
you than the upside is good in the sense
that if if you make you know 12 Returns
versus nine percent yeah your client's
gonna be happier but but they're going
to be happy if you make nine percent
hopefully nine percent returns a Year by
the way see how what they keep on
reminding me is Neil you know
if you lost all your money how sad would
you be I'm like yeah I would be bummed
out my life wouldn't really suck and
they're like
if we got you five seven percent returns
five to seven and we're clocking way
better than that they're like how much
better would your life be if it's five
to seven versus twelve or Twenty there's
no difference in lifestyle from flying I
can buy a jet like there's no difference
in lifestyle now there's certain things
I can't do like I can't just keep
burning money on like I can't just say
hey let me go buy a hundred million
dollar house here 50 million dollar
house there playing there like I'm gonna
go broke right like there is a limit how
much money I have because most I have a
good amount of cash but most my net
worth is still tied up in my
corporations
um if I sold them sure I can start
buying bigger purchases like 100 million
dollar house there 50 somewhere else or
Jet and all that kind of stuff but you
don't want a jet Neil nobody really
wants to Jay the goal is you ride on
other people's jets that is that is the
best thing you can do as a rich person
to have a friend who has a jet versus
having your own jet uh and I I have so
many friends who have Jets and then they
complain be like man you know my
microwave went out on my chat it cost me
30 or 40 000 to replace this stupid
thing or like oh I'm stuck in uh O'Hare
and it's really uh snowing and they
gotta they charge me like 20 grand to
defrost my plane or like something like
that like those kind of things are just
really irk me and I just can't do it
um and you're kind of you're kind of a
minimalist I mean in your own way I know
you live mine is the real estate minus
the real estate like still have a Honda
Odyssey for a family car drive that
around my wife has a nicer car than me
yeah I was gonna say Neil Neil we got to
get you a Bentley or Ferrari or
something come on have a little bit I
have a my box I have a driver I don't
use them that often but when I go to
meetings because I have a laptop table
in the back my buck just looks like a
normal Mercedes it's just a little bit
longer I have my iPad with Wi-Fi or a
sell signal and I just work in the back
um instead of dealing with traffic I
don't use that that often but maybe like
five six times a week but to me that was
worth it because I work too much and
when I drive I get into too many car
accidents or I did when I was younger so
I tend not to drive too often just more
so mentally tormented by driving not
that I'm I'm probably a decent driver
but still like too paranoid and uh
yeah like I I am a minimalist to some
extent and I still want the returns so I
just keep going and going and when I
look at all these money managers they're
like
I look at their stock Returns versus my
stock returns buy like HubSpot in the
early days and Shopify and Google and uh
Amazon and some of those not too early
because I'm not uh that old but buying
them early enough and just holding them
like well my returns are better than
your guys and you guys try to do all
these complex things and try trading or
just buying the s p I'm like I just buy
companies like apple that I believe in
and I hold because I understand
technology
and my biggest diversification into
non-tech for money I manage personally
right not talking about the family
office but I'm a managed personally my
only outside investment outside of tech
was Disney because they got into
streaming and eventually I ended up
selling the Disney stock but I'm all in
Tech you know so my other guys do
non-tech and I took a beating last year
and they're like see this is why but if
I look at my average returns from when I
got in I'm crushing all these money
managers I'm not saying like I'm a
better Trader than Ray dollar or
anything I have a small amount of money
versus some of these guys are dealing
with like 100 plus billion but just
buying Apple stock back in the early
days gives you amazing return to our
HubSpot stock I don't really look at why
did they do this quarter I'm like
Believe In The Operators believe in the
business model buy don't look and 10
years from now you'll see where the
Stock's at totally and Neil one thing I
love everything you're saying is just
you love the game I mean I can tell that
you you kind of this passion that you
have for entrepreneurship
you have that same passion for your
investing and it's it's almost an
entrepreneurial attitude you're
investing too it's it's you kind of know
what you know you know what you're
passionate about technology marketing
software these sorts of things and you
know you're not in the game to amass as
many Yachts or private jets or whatever
no it's possible we're going to end up
donating almost all of it uh we have
money and Trust for our children
is uh blind I think they call it blind
trust or they don't know about it
whatever you want to call I think it's
blind uh one's a grantor trust one's a
dynasty trust the money is only there
like if you got cancer and you can't pay
for treatment gladly pay for it if
you're on the street and you have no
roof overhead we'll gladly help you out
but if you have a job you can figure it
out on your own or if you want to be a
doctor and volunteer all your time in
Africa and just help people in like
these third world countries that have no
money and no Health System that's that
great and you need money to survive but
you want to volunteer all the time I
will pay for your life in a normal way
so Neil what you're talking about and so
this is this is another I think common
theme with family offices is is you've
you're figuring out maybe you have
figured out
how you transmit your values to the Next
Generation right because that can be a
challenge for ultra high net worth
investors ultra high net worth families
is you didn't start you know with the
Maybach and a driver when you were 17 or
however old you were when I met you
right you you had incredible work ethic
and drive to succeed in life and you
want to make sure to pass on that value
to to you know your your children
and sometimes giving them too much
wealth too early or with the wrong
structure can actually impede your
ability to pass on your your values
right
yeah and and for us we believe they
don't need like if our kids want to buy
a Ferrari I don't care what place you
are in life you figure it out on your
own or if you want to go take a vacation
to Italy go figure it out on your own
now if they're with me I will gladly do
it or another biased thing I have when
it comes to wealth is
you know we probably will retire and
we're from Southern California or Los
Angeles
technically Orange County but it's close
enough to Los Angeles so we have a home
in Beverly Hills and not a crazy fancy
like 100 million dollar home or anything
like that but it's expensive enough and
nice enough
and uh let's say
you know my kids if I'm getting older
and you know I can get them to live next
to me but they can't afford a house in
Beverly Hills I would gladly buy the
house next door to me if my kids live
next to me and I get to see them grow up
and their kids and all that kind of
stuff so for certain things I'll make a
sacrifice but it's like for me it's just
like if I'm gonna live my life I want to
enjoy it and not enjoy it from like
going on a yacht I don't care for Yachts
or like even private Aviation you know
like I was going to New York I could
afford a private uh flight but one of my
buddies is Raising uh money for kids in
New Jersey for inner city you know like
um
a lot of the young kids there and even
their parents they don't even have money
for things like toilet paper or feminine
products and you know give them 100
Grand check I'd rather spend 100 Grand
doing that and go flying on JetBlue lay
flat which cost me maybe a thousand two
thousand bucks and donate the money then
you know have a convenience of saving a
few hours and being in the private
Aviation right like you know the money I
just believe is just being wasted and
it's also not the best for the
environment but yeah I don't believe
future generations of my kids need the
money I believe it's better to just
donate everything so so you've set up
your family office you know around your
values which makes sense and I think
that's the goal of every family office
is to have that mission oriented and
values oriented Outlook I know we're
short on time Neil but kind of to zoom
out a little bit and to think about your
you know you have a very inspiring life
story as an entrepreneur and kind of
your journey where you know you built up
these successful businesses and leading
to this shared family office
what what is there any lesson or or tips
that you could give entrepreneurs that
are more toward you know that they're
more like the the 20 21 22 year old Neil
Patel just getting started their
businesses are beginning to be
successful they're beginning to write
those checks to Angel Investments or
private Equity Funds or private real
estate funds what advice do you give
them to to get to that next level of
success
so there was a wise man in Seattle that
gave me this feedback when I was first
starting off and he said Neil
you don't need to figure this out he's
much older than me his name is John I'm
not going to say his last name and he
invested in some telecoms and a few
other things
and he told me
and at the time when I was when he's
giving me this advice he was in his late
50s and I was in my early 20s and he's
like Neil you're if you want to succeed
in life you know a lot of successful
people just write our coattails
so and he didn't mean it in a bad way to
like leech or not provide value but he
was saying if you know other successful
people and your friends ask them ask
them to include you in their deals
you'll learn along the way by just
co-writing checks and you'll avoid a lot
of the mistakes because they've been
through this many times and that's how I
started and I was a a great lesson for
me and it helped me avoid a lot of
mistakes and it also helped me produce
better returns
I love that Neil I think that's a great
note to end on I really appreciate you
sharing your story of entrepreneurial
success but also your investing mindset
you've been so transparent about your
process I always love when a guests is
honest it's rare for us to have someone
you know just share that whole story
from the beginning all the way to the
current day how you manage your family
office so thanks again for joining the
show today Neil
sounds good
thanks for having me